*Meet the JZBot team!* Here are all of the people that work hard to make JZBot a reality. If we've missed anyone on this page, join our [ChatRoom chat room] and let us know.
<wiki:toc/>
----
==Alex==
Alexander Boyd (known primarily on IRC as *jcp* and sometimes known on IRC as *javawizard* or *javawizard2539*) is the current manager of the JZBot project, and the guy that originally started JZBot. His blog can be found [http://me.opengroove.org here].

==Max==
Maximilian Dirkmann (known primarily on IRC as *schrottplatz*) is one of the JZBot developers, and the primary maintainer of the JZBot website.

==James==
James Stoker (known primarily on IRC as *JStoker*) is one of the JZBot developers. James primarily works on the Python port of JZBot's Fact interpreter.

==Mark and Juli==
Mark Boyd (*mark.boyd.engineer* on the JZBot developer list) and Juli Boyd (*juliannboyd* on the JZBot developer list) are Alex's parents, and have contributed to JZBot primarily by listening to endless technical jabber Alex throws at them on a daily basis. Mark has also helped with a lot of the JZBot design decisions.

==Tony==
Anthony Luth (known primarily on IRC as *!Anthony_Luth*) is the guy that originally commissioned JZBot for a group that he was a member of. When the group split up, JZBot was open-sourced. Tony participated in a number of design decisions at the beginning of JZBot's history, and chose the name "Marlen Jackson" for the official JZBot instances run by Alex.

==MrDudle==
MrDudle (known primarily on IRC as *MrDudle*) is the primary financial backer of JZBot and the owner of jzbot.org.